# Asteroids

Asteroids built with raw WebGL and
[glMatrix](https://glmatrix.net/docs/index.html) for NCSU CSC 461: Introductory
Computer Graphics.

This is the classic asteroids arcade game but played in 3D. Your goal is to
shoot and destroy every asteroid while avoiding collisions with asteroids and
also the glowing yellow suns. Once you destroy all the asteroids, you will go
to the next level which will be more difficult.

To control the ship, you use the mouse to look around and press "w" to activate
your thrusters to move forward. To fire lasers, press "Space" or click the left
mouse button. You can pause and quit at any time by pressing "p".

## Gameplay Notes

Large asteroids will take two shots to destroy while small ones will take
one shot. When you destroy an asteroid, it splits into two asteroids which are
each one size category smaller than the original.

Destroying a large asteroid gives you 100 points while destroying small
asteroids give you 50 points.

Since the game is in 3D, there is no wraparound. Instead, as you fly around
asteroids and suns are constantly despawned and respawned as they enter and
exit the area around you. In order to make the game more fair, the asteroids
spawn most densely in the area directly in front of where you're facing and do
not spawn at all in a 45 degree cone behind where you're facing. However, since
suns spawn in a 50 degree cone in the direction you're moving so you need to be
careful of them when travelling quickly.

## Developers Tools

To aid in debugging, there is a free camera "freecam" mode that allows you to
move around and look at objects disconnected from the ship.

To enter freecam, press "b" while controlling the ship. The game will freeze
and you are now in freecam mode until you press "b" again.

In freecam, you move around with wasd, ascend with space, and descend with left
shift. You can also press "f" to toggle whether fog is rendered or not. You use
the up and down arrow keys to increase and decrease your movement speed
respectively. Press left to decrease the current level and right to increase.

Note that when you edit the level this way, no changes will happen until you
press "b" to exit freecam, since the game is paused. Additionally, when you
edit levels this way it directly edits the difficulty of what will be spawned
in rather than completely resetting the ship and universe like would normally
happen upon completing a level.

## Building

This project is built with TypeScript, Webpack, and NPM. Make sure you have a
recent version of `npm` installed and then, in the root of the repository, run

```sh
npm install
```

After this, you can run our npm scripts of `build`, `watch`, or `serve`. For
development, you normally want `serve`. For production, you normally want
`build`.

```
npm run build
npm run watch
npm run serve
```

`build` generates a minified `browser.js` file in `dist/` using all of the code
in `src/`. This file is generated by Webpack so it additionally pulls in and
minifies the glMatrix library all into one file.

`watch` runs `build` with Webpack except in development mode. Additionally, any
changes of the files will cause `browser.js` to be rebuilt.

`serve` runs `watch` and also starts a development server serving the `dist/`
directory (i.e. running the project). It should also open the project in a new
tab in your browser. Additionally, the project is live-reloaded any time you
make a change to the source code and any build/compile errors you run into will
be displayed on the webpage as well as your terminal running `npm serve`

## Citation

* Font: Astro Space
* Laser/Missile Sound: <https://www.dreamstime.com/royalty-free-sound-effect-laser-beam-sound-effect-various-projects-laser-beam-audio133389651>
* Thruster Sound: <https://freesound.org/people/DJT4NN3R/sounds/347576/>
* Collision Sound: <https://soundbible.com/308-Large-Thump-Or-Bump.html>
* Music: Charon by Kaiz Akhtar
